hey everybody this is Brendon Hufford I
am a creative class member you're seeing
this initially because you attended this
it's SEO not sorcery creative class
workshop along with myself Kaylee Moore
and Paul Jarvis if you're watching this
on YouTube thank you so much for
watching it there are a ton of questions
a bunch of different kind of Q&A that
I'm going to do if you want to check out
the original recording there's a link to
that below in the description if you
want to check out the Q&A that I'm about
to do now there's also questions written
out in the descriptions if you were
there live and you're like hey one is
Brendon gonna answer my question look in
the description below
I've time-stamped every single one
because I love you and if you're like me
and you're selfish and you just want
your question answered look below like I
said the same it's fine look below it's
time stamped in there you can click it
it'll go right to your question if you
want to watch all of this please do
because there's over 20 questions that
we didn't get to in the workshop I think
they are amazing like I said this is not
sorcery SEO is does not have to be this
crazy complicated task but it's a skill
it's like anything else but for some
reason people assume that we should all
just know SEO like I don't know design
very well I try my best right
I don't know design I'm not a developer
I'm really good at SEO because I took
time to learn it and I think that like
anything you can take time to learn this
stuff that's kind of the goal of this QA
right now so let's dive right into the
questions this first question says how
can you do link building other than
buying links on sketchy sites or
contributing to other people's blogs as
guest bloggers any effective link
building strategies especially for a
newer business or website yes the number
one way to get links is to create
something worth linking to now that
could either be you yourself right
whenever somebody mentions Paul Jarvis
they're gonna link to his website so the
more that he puts out into the world the
more value he provides the more media he
puts out the bigger Paul becomes the
more people are going to link to him
thus the more links he has the other
thing you can do is create content worth
linking to whenever I think of content
worth linking to I
about creating the best possible content
on a given topic so if I'm going to
write an article about how to paint my
kids bedrooms it is literally going to
be the best article ever on painting
kids bedrooms with videos embedded in it
and an infographic and fun little things
just throughout that are really cool and
all these anecdotes and gifts and like
it's gonna be really long-form and it's
gonna cover every single thing somebody
could want to know about painting their
kid's bedroom from the technical side of
it to the creative side of it to do I
use here's 20 different things that we
tried and all these pictures of how they
went in our kids bedrooms and mistakes
that we made and everything in there
then when people find that they're gonna
want to link to it it would be silly if
they didn't link to this amazing best
piece of content ever so if you're a new
business we're starting a brand new
website I would highly recommend just
focusing a hundred percent on content
creation to start which is the on page
part of SEO and then later focusing on
the off page part getting links to your
website and things like that just focus
on doing the best work possible make it
world-class next question I'm a blank
can I use SEO to help my clients the
blank could be anything and the answer
is yes if you're a developer does
knowing more about SEO help your clients
yeah absolutely
the way that you code the website in
this case the way that you code a
website were talking about specifically
web development if you the way you code
the website the way you take the design
and decide where different header tags
are going to go and is the h1 tag
automatically going to be the same as
the title or is there a place for them
to put an h1 tag I've noticed a lot in
professional development like there's
just no h1 tags on pages which is an
incredibly important part of SEO so the
more that you know the more you make you
know you code out pages so that they can
have really good looking long-form
content maybe this is more front and
then back in but like and even that
might be a mistake so sakes again I'm
not a developer but I think everybody
from designers to developer
marketers whoever writers of course
knowing more about SEO will infinitely
help your clients we're not even talking
about getting you more clients but just
having this knowledge base it is like
the most beautiful little accent on your
already incredible skill set is good SEO
possible if you don't use WordPress um
of course WordPress is just one type of
content management system it's just one
of the best like for as much as people
say it's really complicated
try coding your own website that's
complicated when WordPress came out it
was like oh wow this is great this is
wonderful things are much easier now but
now we have things like Wix in
Squarespace the SEO in a Wix in a
Squarespace isn't gonna be as good as
WordPress it's not from the coding side
of it which I said I don't have that as
much experience with to the other side
of it of where to put header tags and
how Google pulls images I'll talk about
Squarespace and one of the later
questions but yeah it's totally possible
if this is the hang-up if I don't know
how to do WordPress and I can't start my
project until I start WordPress if
that's the hang-up because you're
worried about SEO and WordPress and
whatever versus a platform you're using
stop use it whatever whatever gets you
started right the most important thing
here is getting started and if you're at
the point now where your business is on
Squarespace or Wix or something and you
can pay somebody to do this do that pay
them to build you a WordPress website
even if it's just a thousand dollars to
set up a basic theme a very like high
quality not basic theme but like
something from studiopress and to put
Genesis on it and things like that like
that's that's why and you don't import
all your blog posts and make everything
look cool in the branding whatever do
that right you don't have to have it
built from scratch you don't have to pay
somebody twenty-five thousand dollars
for a website you know you know and if
you're not making any money yet and you
have more time than money learn it
yourself that's what I did
you know I didn't I wasn't born good at
SEO I didn't go to school for this but I
think all this stuff is totally learn
about but if it's the thing holding you
back from starting your thing
don't let it hold you back question four
do I really have to do keyword research
and I just write about what I want to
write about Lisa also has this other
question that I thought was real
our keywords relevant today as far as
SEO is concerned keywords are phrases
people search for in Google's and
because we're humans some phrases are
going to be searched for more than
others which is totally natural right do
you have to do keyword research no not
at all
if you're creating Google is wonderful
with synonyms you'll hear me say this on
a couple other questions here in a
moment they're great with synonyms so
the the best content ranks for thousands
of keywords not thousands of different
keywords thousands of related keywords I
did a search recently a kind of a little
bit of research on you know some keyword
phrases and I noticed that like all of
the articles that were coming up tops
for all these different phrases were not
optimized for those phrases they're
optimized for just a big piece of
content or a big like topic rather in
Google knows like oh if it's good for
this it's gonna be good for this too
right if it's good for one part of this
topic it'll be good for the rest of it
and Google ruthlessly prunes those types
of things to make sure it's serving the
best possible results
so keyword research is a great step but
it's definitely not something you should
let hold you back if you use a tool like
href or something like that that's what
I use in love SEM rush some people also
use I think that's okay I prefer HR EPS
but like again that's a hundred
dollar-a-month tool if you're not a
professional SEO it doesn't make sense
if you want to do their seven days for
seven dollar trial which I highly
recommend by all means do that get your
keyword research done and be on your way
making great content and all the other
things but yeah it's they're relevant
today but they're not gonna make or
break your content right the question
and the reason I think people are asking
this especially at least here is because
we don't wanna waste our time right I
don't want to waste 30 hours making this
amazing content on something only 20
people search for every month I thought
it was a big problem but it's really not
things like that so making sure they're
a big enough problem to solve there's
other ways to do it just by usually just
starting to type that those phrases into
Google and seeing what Google says is
the autosuggest for that those are going
to be the most popular ones
can social media help improve SEO the
the short answer's no but the smarter
answer the longer answer is yes by
building relationships through social
sharing my content on social people
discover my content and then later on
when they're writing their own blog
posts they're more likely to link to
that content so it's more of a long
gameplay but it doesn't factor in it's
not like the number of fans or followers
I have increases my rankings and traffic
from Google but it does help get the
word out there it does help build
relationships those things do help SEO
hey Brendan what do you think about in
regards SEO is question six
when redesign and rewriting pages
they're already getting some organic
traffic I'd like to keep optimize that
traffic but the copy doesn't totally
reflect the site as a whole Brian that's
a great question first of all thank you
for showing up live to ask this question
- I would always keep adding content I'm
almost always redesigning and rewriting
pages on my personal website on my side
projects and on my clients websites
we're always updating and upgrading
things so when the copy doesn't totally
reflect the site as a whole I'm I'm not
sure about that phrasing in it that part
of your statement is it saying you're
optimizing it for SEO so it now seems
weird because then that would be wrong
it should always be what's best for
people if you're thinking or upgrading
it by cramming more keywords in there
not saying you're doing this Brian but
that's what how some people think of it
of like oh let me add some ore sections
and it seems weird now
or maybe it's already getting traffic
but is this traffic that's converting
into subscribers customers and clients
for you if it's just traffic to get more
traffic one of the biggest blog posts I
have on my website was when me and my
son sat down and watched Casey nice
dad's first 100 vlogs and I wrote out 78
tips for entrepreneur dad's based on
what I had learned I'm one of my biggest
pieces of traffic right now is like
Casey nice tat quotes that's not gonna
be a client that's not gonna be a
customer I could i optimize for it
better sure but it was just something I
wanted to write and make and learn and
get out into the world like I didn't I
don't care about that for SEO so I'm not
gonna try to
keeper optimize that post right keeping
and optimizing should be for things that
are going to convert into sales clients
customers etc so make sure you say focus
on that and always make sure saying
focus on doing what's best for people
not you know what's best for what people
say you should do to optimize for SEO
those of us that really do SEO for a
living with big clients and small
clients and for ourselves know that the
best answer is always doing what's best
for people great question here from
Joseph I'm hearing more and more about
machine learning and AI how will this
affect SEO in the future how do we get
ahead of the curve regarding to new
technology I don't know Joseph if at
some point machines learn how to write
and talk better and with more
personality than a human then they've
become self-aware and we have more we
have other questions I will be doing a
very different QA then about SEO because
we now have self-aware machines I mean
you read everything I read that I love
and enjoy it has a lot of personality
and flavor to it there's no even with AI
and machine learning there's no formula
for like the epic blog post so I don't
think it's gonna affect IC at all most
most content already is being made by
machines and it's terrible it doesn't
rank the best content still is made by
people and if all of a sudden machines
can make better videos and writing than
people can then all people can we're
having a different conversations don't
don't let that keep you up at night at
all Ronald thanks for this SEO webinar
invitation you are welcome Ronald
question SEO local versus international
for branding design services ah great
question so first thing is anything that
ranks nationally or internationally is
also going to rank local so if I'm a you
know an SEO consultant and I ranked
number one in the entire United States
for SEO consultant but I'm in Chicago
I'm also probably gonna rank number one
right
if you're asking should i optimize my
site don't just don't try to optimize
your site for like best SEO consultant
in America or best SEO consultant in
Chicago like my website focuses on
Chicago because I like working with
local
clients but and also like I work for a
really badass agency called click
studios here in Chicago so the more you
know I can use my website as lead gen
for the agency that I work at that's
awesome too something I'm excited about
kind of probably moving forward but like
don't don't worry about local versus
international if you're branding design
services what's gonna stand out a lot
more is the content you create for the
kind of brands you want to work with do
you work with like what is your kind of
not necessarily niche or niche is you
know who do you work best with who's
your ideal clients do a few duce just do
like I don't do generic SEO I have a
very you know a specific set of clients
that I know I work best with and I say
no to a lot of clients because those are
not you know the types of clients I want
to work with figuring out who you do
branding design services for and then
ranking for that that would be where I
would focus great question ronald
question nine what is the best way to
use SEO to gain a social media following
Cayla good question I would follow up I
would have to do this live why why am I
using SEO why am I getting people from
Google to my website to then get them to
leave my website and go to social media
if somebody leaves my website to go to
Twitter Facebook or Instagram they're
not coming back those platforms are
optimized to keep them there I want them
to stay on my website and join my email
list so I wouldn't use SEO to build a
social media following I would use it to
build an email list I would use it to
build any sort of relationship I can
with them where they give me permission
to stay in touch now if that means
social that's great but with Facebook
reach reach you know at like zero
percent I wouldn't I don't want to play
in anybody else's playground
I want to I want to keep to email right
now cuz that's what works I know there's
people that say like box get a lot more
deliverability they only deliver well
now because we don't hate them yet we
will it'll become like email if too many
people are using BOTS to you for
facebook Messenger and stuff
screw that definitely try to keep it in
a way any way that you can communicate
best with them and if that means social
in your case and your business and your
niche and you know with your right
you'll clients and you know since we're
specifically talking about like
freelance with creative class then by
all means but I would use SEO to get
more sales clients customers and try to
keep them on my website to do that
versus pushing them to social a good
question here from Brandon I read that
two types of content you should create
to be effective and SEO today are rate
content as an answer to someone's
question and write authority pieces
basically a long page where you try to
be the best resource or article on a
given topic do you think those are
important hell yes absolutely
answer people's questions solve their
problems and do so in a way that is as
definitive as possible every single time
so those are actually one piece of
content the answer is yes good question
Brandon does Google crawl Squarespace
Stephanie uh except me sometimes I
wonder I have a client that is on
Squarespace and it's a pain we're trying
to do a bunch of different stuff and
yeah it crawls it right there's ways you
can use you know google webmaster tools
or Google search consoles it's called
now I'm old so I still call it webmaster
tools Google search console you can hook
that up with your Squarespace site and
get it to kind of read you know request
that Google crawl it when you make
updates to it
but sometimes I wonder again like it's
not ideal that's why I prefer WordPress
but if Squarespace
gets you started which I think Stephanie
in your case it has by all means like
keep using it and you know I am sure
there's some Google searches and videos
that I'll answer it much better than I
do but yeah there's ways to get Google
to crawl your site
Tomoya asks a really good question here
in number twelve
I keep hearing duplicate content is bad
for SEO apologies for the cost to make
websites responsive I'm creating pages
with different media breaking points
however sometimes a theme I'm using does
not show the web page is the way I want
so I duplicate the content and oh god
this is terrible no don't do this if
you're creating like multiple web pages
where it shows an actual completely
different web page that's not responsive
like that's just serving a different
webpage I had a client or a potential
client one time that had like a mobile
sub domain for the mobile sites and then
the desktop went to their regular home
page they're just serving two different
web sites don't do this here's the thing
if you have a theme it says a theme I am
using does not show the web pages in the
way I want either learn to code and do
your own or just live with it I'm not a
maybe I mean if you're a designer I
think you have the skill or a developer
you have the skills to fix that and if
you're not either learn it or just deal
with I mean I'm not a designer or
developer and I just deal with it like
the theme I want looks decent enough on
mobile fine whatever like just keep it
moving
but yeah don't duplicate your content on
the website that just is confusing to
Google into humans right like I'm I just
think that causes a lot of headaches and
stuff but I wouldn't stress it like
duplicate content is bad for SEO we're
looking at duplicate content on your
website but also on other website so as
much as we can not duplicate our content
in different place now sometimes it just
happens because like five of my websites
might have you know a disclaimer that is
similar or five pages on a website might
have the same disclaimer for something
on the content or whatever I know Pat
Flynn from smart passive income has
income reports and every single one has
the same disclaimer on it like I guess
that's duplicate but yeah I think that
this like having a different thing
served for mobile and tablet and desktop
for each page is kind of weird but it's
also I'm kind of speaking above my
paygrade tamiya so I apologize this is a
little bit outside of my Lane but I hope
that answer is helpful Tim or I hope
tomorrow I'm saying your name right I
apologize I'm really big on getting
names right so if I didn't please let me
know and I will again apologize I'm very
sorry will quality of keywords win over
quantity when it comes to SEO
website has quite a few pages with three
to five keywords on each page compared
to one to two good keywords
this is not how keywords work sorry it's
very blunt that's just not how keywords
work if you rank for something you
should rank for all of the tangental
ones as well I have a page on my
photography business website where it's
about like naming your photography
business and I think the one of them has
like over 400 keywords that it ranks for
so if you're I'm not sure what the goal
of the question is but again if we're
focused on like content first I want to
rank for all of the keywords number one
for all the keywords and I'm going to
create a piece of content that is worthy
of that ranking I would focus there so I
think that the quality of the keywords
would matter over quantity
but like the answers both here I want to
have a website that's going to rank for
tons of different keywords with you know
whatever topic it's around and I want to
I want those to be the best ones so I
guess the answer here is both question
14 from Anastasia thank you for
organizing this you're welcome
most of my clients come to me via word
of mouth do I need SEO no no you don't
I mean if most of your clients I think
it's dangerous that all your clients
come to you through one one method right
now if that ever falls apart or doesn't
work out for you that's a big problem
but no you don't need it Apple doesn't
use social media Apple doesn't need
every all you had to be on Facebook
you're crazy if you know that Facebook
Apple doesn't like they don't need it so
I don't let anybody should you with SEO
you think I would be like shooting like
you should use SEO everybody should do
that you don't need it you don't need a
good you know a well-designed website
you don't even need a website that's
what's crazy we live in this weird world
where like we think like everybody
definitely I know people with like
multi-million dollar companies that like
have websites that look like they are
straight out of 1997 and they're killing
it there's huge companies thousands of
employees terrible websites see them all
the time so no you don't you don't need
it but is it worth learning in the
future
at least having some idea about it maybe
I think so good question though
question here from Sara I've been taking
the H rest course on SEO yes area you
are cuz you're smart and awesome the
person teaching the course seem to
suggest having just a high ranking
keyword as the title of an article so I
think it's Sara you're talking about Tim
so low he is he works at HFS and he is
brilliant
something like books like Lord of the
Rings so the example Sara is talking
about is an author if an author was
creating a website like how would an
author use SEO well they might
rank they want to rank for books like
other books that are similar like if you
wrote sword & Sworcery novels
you know maybe ranking number one for
books like Lord of the Rings and then
you had a bunch of books on there that
are like Lord of the Rings including
your books that would really help you
know I would not title it books like
Lord of the Rings I would make it the
coolest most like well copy written
article that you could think or the
carpet copy written title ever but
having some of those keywords or like
something similar to those keywords
Google figure that stuff out I would
definitely make it longer and more
personal you know I wish I had some
funny Lord of the Rings joke off the top
of my heads but I would arrest the top
of my head but I would definitely make
it really really personal not just
eleven books like Lord of the Rings like
I guess but if you're an author and a
writer and that's what you're writing
like you should probably be able to
write a better title for something like
that whatever your actual keyword is I
think that having a really smart funny
title is you know that gets you the
clicks even if you're ranked second but
you have a cooler title most people
still click the first one but it might
be a little bit different the other way
around
question 16 so my company name is a
misspelling of a single word what sort
of things can I do to help search
engines not suggest to people the
correct spelling Andrew this is rough
this is hard for SEO you just have to
get big enough that enough people are
googling that misspelling that Google
doesn't go did you mean this like
imagine when like Facebook started and
people are googling Facebook it would be
like what
what is that did you mean this other
thing probably because Facebook's not a
word so I'm not saying you have to get
as big as Facebook or Google or anything
at air you know uber I'm sure ooh BRR
for when they started and people
googling the word uber it was not a
rideshare company right
lyft ly f T like when people started
googling ly ft I'm sure people you know
Google initially was like um did you
mean lyft li ft I'm not saying you have
to get as big as one of them but that
could definitely pose a problem I think
the advantage for SEO is not just people
googling your company name but also
people googling content related in
things that you know things that are
gonna drive those like customers clients
things like that but that's only for
branded search and I wouldn't stress
branded search too much Andrew unless
you're hearing from people hey I tried
to Google you and I can't find your
website and in that case like that might
be more of a branding question right but
still a good question I apologize Andrew
if I skipped over that a little bit
happy to follow up with you question 17
instead of one time website design
projects how do I grow em our monthly
recurring revenue with SEO yeh through
were three-letter acronyms how to get
started
what do services look like I'm a
freelancer currently as well as starting
a distributed agency with another
developer Joseph Joe good question um
learn SEO is first how do I get started
learn it HR F's has a great course
there's another course that I recommend
called SEO for bloggers that I think is
really good written by and created by
another guy met Giovanni see who also
uses hrs like me I would check that out
in the links below I'll link that up but
you know if your only goal is to
increase your monthly recurring revenue
don't like don't it's bad so I would
continue focusing like you're not going
to be able to do both design projects
and as good SEO like having some just
it's
is different than like website updates
like the ongoing SEO services I do
involve a lot of content creation a lot
of outreach a full team of link
prospectors outreach writers all these
different moving parts it is not
something that you can just like tack on
for another 20 bucks a month that's what
happens when people come to me they're
like why pay my current guy $100 why is
yours 2500 um
because what's that hundred bucks
getting you and they're like well I
don't know well that's terrible like is
that and I don't think that's any of the
the money we want to take from clients
right I don't want to take anybody's
money if I'm a designer I don't want to
tack on SEO to get a couple hundred
extra bucks a month I want to actually
like have them see some results with it
and I think that that's gonna be really
important and Joseph I think you them
the more you look at what it takes to do
good ongoing SEO services the more
you'll see how you have to continue
you're gonna need to start getting
either freelancers or other freelancers
or building a team around SEO to do it
really really well for clients that are
not gonna like nickel and dime you the
client set chart you know you are gonna
get at $200 a month are going to expect
the Cadillac services at the Honda Civic
prices and they're not people you want
to deal with ongoing because you can't
really do that grade of work at $200 a
month you just can't do that much
outreach you can't create that much
content it's gonna be really difficult
so I think that you know looking at
learning SEO and maybe doing ongoing
consulting with them could be something
really cool where you're kind of
advising what changes they should make
and what they should do month-to-month
but um and I'm not saying Joseph I
apologize if I frame this as like you're
some sort of like money-hungry jerk and
retrospect that is completely wrong and
not at all what I was intending to do I
feel like it just came out that way but
yeah I would just like really take a
step back and really cuz it's like me
saying like oh I have all these SEO
clients why don't I start building them
for design too like yikes I would really
have to like do it really well and
really put some time into or like
conversion optimization or something
I'll set you know I just don't want to
anybody to think like this is just
something you can kind of dabble in I
think it's worth investing in and
building like a real skillset around
Stephanie great question here do I
really have to write can I just make
videos sure I mean if you want to make
videos and then pay somebody to write I
think it's a great idea make you know
what if I made this video right now this
is a really long video with all these
questions what if I have a transcript
below it that is edited by somebody
that's really good and then we put it
below the video on a blog post is it
gonna rank well sure I'm sure it's gonna
be thousands of words along you know you
just need right you said you need the
copy of what the video is about not just
what it's about you can't just put like
a hundred words underneath it and think
it's gonna rank for anything but if you
have like long really good long-form
videos and workshops and like podcasts
are great for this by all means yeah you
can solve it with that you just need to
then pay somebody else or have a
relationship with somebody else who will
and maybe in exchange maybe there's some
sort of services exchange whatever you
do you could exchange services with them
to get that done next question 19 when
meeting with clients for the first time
for SEO how do you explain it to them so
Ryan this is usually done during a pitch
to a client who has you know is more
focused on non SEO stuff this is
somebody who you know I do this a lot
with with qlik studios so being their
SEO lead most of our clients are
designed clients so when I explain SEO
to a design client the best way for me
to explain it to them is two ways with
analogies and with hard numbers I like
to start with hard numbers with SEO
saying here's what you guys want to rank
for here's how many people are searching
that every month you know if I can show
them in hard numbers twenty-eight
thousand people are looking for what you
do every month currently none of them
are finding you optimizing your website
and this is kind of the analogy building
your authority in Google is what will
get those people to your website all SEO
is search engine optimization is Bill
authority in Google we can have things
on our website that build our authority
and things off of our website on the
rest of the internet that are in the
rest of the internet that build that
authority and that's usually where I
keep it
I have other examples of you know
building a house and parts of a car and
all the I was a teacher for 10 years so
I love me some good analogies but um you
know I think that's the best the best
way to explain it to the them the first
time is these many people are searching
for you every single month with these
phrases
none of them are finding you right now
here's who they're finding and it'll be
their competitors and they'll go aw crap
I want those people I had no idea I
could get another 20,000 people to my
website things like that another
question from Ryan awesome how do you
not appear spammy to potential clients
like the hundreds of emails well I get
those emails too I'm an SEO person and
people are offering me SEO services so I
feel you I mean Ryan this is such an
easy it's like be a real human have a
real relationship like you know if
you're cold emailing people you know
send out three emails a day cold emails
but be very real be so normal that like
I mean it's just there's no formula
there's no cold outreach formula just
you have to be a totally regular person
don't try to hack it don't try to do
anything straight a really thoughtful be
like if I got this would I at least read
it and what I probably reply and if the
answer is yes then that's the email you
want to send question number 21 do we
need to create or should we create blog
category pages meaning a landing page
for each category Megan this is an
awesome question so I know Kate Flanders
does this she has category pages for the
months because she kind of has themes
every single month if your category
pages don't serve a purpose in like the
navigation of your website don't you
don't need them but if like they if each
category is like a different thing and
it helps to kind of lay stuff out in a
way that helps humans navigate your
website and also helps Google and other
search engines crawl the website then by
all means make those landing pages but
otherwise I wouldn't stress them
if it depends on your relationship with
your audience and with your potential
clients and customers you know if it
makes more sense to just have a blogroll
where it's just kind of time line that's
fine I do find that the category can be
really really helpful you know if you're
here just to learn you're on my personal
website Brendan huffard comm you want to
learn just about SEO you don't want to
read any of my like personal ramblings
cool here's a page for that that would
be that's a way that it might be really
really helpful question 22 can you guess
post the same article two different
blogs I did a guest post on a blog
that's now defunct but maybe I'll add
that to my own blog Stephanie good
question staff yes only in your case
though if it's not on the internet
anymore then by all means use it but
I've had that happen to me - I wrote
guest posts like five or six years ago
and they're not around anymore so I can
put those anywhere I want but I would
never guess host somewhere else and then
also put that content on my own website
or you know anywhere else unless you're
you know how to do that with like it's
called a canonical tag that tells Google
like hey wherever I wrote this the first
time on that other website rank that
first but this is how like most
syndication is done where you know
you'll write it and then maybe
Huffington Post is like we want to post
this too and then life hackers you know
any of those big like content
syndication things or people also post
articles on medium with a little note
like this was published first than my
blog a year ago things like that but
yeah feel free in your case if it's not
on the internet anymore it's fair game
we got about five questions left I
really just want to thank everybody uh
well first a few if your staff and you
fast forward to question 23 you're
awesome
but everybody else who's been you know
listening watching this whole time
really appreciate it really thank you
not only for your time but also for your
efforts and wanting to get better at SEO
I hope that this is helping demystify
things a little bit you're hearing the
things that I'm saying over and over
again and realizing it just sounds like
doing good work for real people that's
really the theme of how I think about
SEO and why I've been so successful with
it so Steph's question has two words
that are using Instagram posts Facebook
page posts do they add the SEO no not
unless you copy and paste them on to
like your website somewhere they don't
matter
question 24 how do you optimize for
local and international SEO at the same
time Ryan you focus on which everyone's
bigger like the branding services
question earlier if you want to rank for
everything I'm kind of curious like do I
want to I wanted to rank for local like
Chicago and you know the UK or something
like I'm not sure how to do this or what
your question I know how to do this I'm
I'm just curious what your question is
the best way to do it that I've seen
like if you have multiple locations
would be to have different pages like
pages built out for regions we just did
a really great website for a client
where that client has a national level
company so they rank nationally they
also rank internationally because they
have locations in Central and South
America and all these other places but
they also rank for like they also have
local pages so they have these kind of
like big service pages and then they
have separate pages built out for the
regions like the states in the countries
and then cities even so it's kind of
like built out in this really cool kind
of if you think about how a sitemap
would be laid out with like the pyramid
coming down from like biggert stuff then
down into regions then down into like
more city and you know smaller locations
and then those different pages would be
optimized for each like particular very
specific thing I hope that helps again
happy to go over this soon or go over
this in more detail how do you handle a
website redesign without losing any
rankings you gained with your old
website simple you just set up really
good 301 redirects so you can set up a
very generic one of like I want my thing
on my old site no matter what to just go
to my new sites homepage that's probably
a bad idea but you could also set up
very specific ones of like every single
page that on the old site has a 301
redirect that points to the new one to
the same page on the new website so if
my old website was Ryan seo.com and the
new website is Ryan I don't know Ryan is
awesome
come you know Ryan seo.com slash about
would go to Ryan is awesome calm slash
about or whatever you just have to write
them all separately you can either use
plugins or I always like to put them in
the HD access if possible I think it's a
little bit cleaner and faster two
questions left number twenty-six Mandy
awesome question do you recommend any
online WordPress SEO training course is
yes and it feels so good not to
recommend a course yeah here by my
course I don't have a course right now
maybe someday I will um but right now I
have a really great one that I got to be
a part of a little bit I got to be a
bonus interview in Matt G of any C's SEO
for bloggers course even if you're not a
blogger I think it'd still be really
helpful he's one of the smarter people
than I know when it comes to SEO he has
a great course I think it's a good value
and he really really knows his stuff the
link to that is in is below in the
description here in the YouTube video
finally od last question devil's
advocate is the best SEO word of mouth
isn't random organic traffic he's not
your you know isn't random organic
traffic not your ideal client um
yeah random organic traffic is
definitely not my ideal client people
looking for Casey nice that quotes are
not my ideal client but the best SEO is
not well it's word of mouth in so you
know in as much as it's everybody's
thinking about you and talking about you
and then writing about you on the
internet making videos about you that's
great that the best way to optimize is
just to be top of mind for everybody but
if you're still trying to get top of
mind it's not random organic traffic
this means you have some sort of
strategy about what am I gonna write
about what problems I am am I going to
solve on my website and for who that
when they search for those things in the
way they talk about those things they're
gonna find me so seeing SEO in random
organic traffic those are completely
unrelated things random organic traffic
is what you do when you don't do it or
is what you get when you don't do any
SEO so the best SEO answer first
question best SEO is word of mouth but
you also have to be you have to be Apple
you have to be Facebook you have to be
Airbnb right
and random organic traffic is what you
get when you do the opposite of
everything we've talked about today so
to kind of wrap things up thank you so
much
I've radically changed my life with SEO
I think that other people can do the
same you can learn more about me at
Brendon huffard dot-com please check out
creative class if you haven't yet
there's a link to that in the
description as well I apologize didn't
put it on the slide
check out creative class that's what
taught me how to start a freelance
business which then allowed me to I
still have some freelance clients but I
do most of my best work with the agency
that I work at and I love it I have a
fulfilling career working in an office
with tons of people that I love and you
know with some mentorship from just
incredible incredible partners at the
agency and I'm really grateful for that
in creative class was a step for me
to get there and I still learn so so
much I'm really active in the creative
class slack community so definitely
check out creative class Co again the
link is in the description as well as
Matt G of Annie C's SEO course which is
kind of the course that I recommend
right now so definitely check those out
thank you for hanging out with me and I
will talk to you soon